---
title: "9.2.0 ctrtransfer"
permalink: /9.2.0-ctrtransfer.html
---

If you downgraded to 2.1.0 but for some reason have **no functional NAND backups**, this guide is for you.
{: .notice--success}

Your device may not show your installed games after the ctrtransfer. This is due to the tickets being removed by the transfer, which is why you back them up. They will be restored at the end of the guide.
{: .notice--info}

#### What you need

{% include addfiles.html %}

#### Instructions

##### Section I - Prep work

1. Copy `GodMode9.bin` from the GodMode9 `.zip` to the `/luma/payloads/` folder on your SD card and rename `GodMode9.bin` in `/luma/payloads/` to `up_GodMode9.bin`
4. Copy the 9.2.0 ctrtransfer image `.bin` and `.bin.sha` from the ctrtransfer `.zip` to the `/files9/` folder on your SD card
5. Copy `Decrypt9WIP.bin` to the `/luma/payloads/` folder on your SD card and rename `Decrypt9WIP.bin` to `x_Decrypt9WIP.bin`
6. Reinsert your SD card into your 3DS

##### Section II - Backup tickets and config save

5. Open Decrypt9 from arm9loaderhax by holding (X) during boot
6. Go to "Ticket/Titlekey Options", then select "Ticket Dump (SysNAND)"
7. Press (Select) to eject your SD card, then put it in your computer
8. Delete all `.tik` files in the `/files9/` folder that **do not** start with "00-"
  + If none start with "00-", then just delete all of them
10. Reinsert your SD card into your 3DS, then press (B) to go back to the Main Menu
11. Go to "SysNAND Options", then "System Save Dump", then select "Dump configsave.bin"

##### Section III - ctrtransfer

8. Go to "SysNAND Options", then "CTRNAND Transfer", then "Auto CTRNAND Transfer"
9. Select the 9.2.0 ctrtransfer image when prompted by pressing (A)
10. **Backup SysNAND to `NANDmin.bin` when prompted by pressing (A)**
11. Allow the transfer process to proceed automatically, this may take some time
12. Once the transfer is complete, press Select to eject your SD card
13. Put your SD card in your computer, then copy `NANDmin.bin` and `NANDmin.bin.sha` from the `/files9/` folder on your SD card to a safe location
  + Make backups in multiple locations
  + This backup will save you from a brick if anything goes wrong in the future
  + **Your backup should match one of the sizes on [this](nand-size) page; if it does not, you should delete it and make a new one!**
14. Delete the 9.2.0 ctrtransfer image `.bin` and `.bin.sha` from the `/files9/` folder on your SD card
15. Reinsert your SD card into your 3DS
16. Press (Start) to reboot
17. Update your CFW SysNAND to the latest version using system settings
    + **Yes this is safe, stop opening Github issues about it.**

##### Section IV - Restore config save

1. Reboot holding (X) during boot to launch arm9loaderhax Decrypt9
2. Go to "SysNAND Options", then "System Save Inject", then select "Inject configsave.bin"
3. Press (B) to get back to the main menu

##### Section V - Injecting FBI

2. Go to "SysNAND Options", then "Miscellaneous", then select the "Health&Safety Dump" option to dump Health & Safety to `hs.app` **(you can use Up and Down / Left and Right to change the name)**
3. Press (B), then select the "Health&Safety Inject" option
8. Select the FBI injectable `.app` for your region
4. Press (A) and confirm to inject
9. Press (Start) to reboot
10. If you still launch to the stock Health & Safety app and have downgraded with Gateway in the past, [follow this troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting#gw_fbi)

##### Section VI - Reinstalling Tickets

If you had no tickets beginning with 00- earlier, you can skip this section.
{: .notice--info}

1. Open FBI
2. Select "SD"
3. Select "files9"
4. Select "\<current directory>"
5. Select "Install and delete all tickets"
6. Wait. The system may appear to freeze, just give it time.
7. Press (A) to confirm
8. Press (B) to decline installing tickets from CDN.
9. Exit with the home button

Formatting a device following a ctrtransfer *without restoring the config save* can cause screen brightness / flickering issues. See [this](https://github.com/Plailect/Guide/issues/794).
{: .notice--info}

Return to [Installing arm9loaderhax](installing-arm9loaderhax).
{: .notice--primary}
